---
title: "Put a project into git version control, with central svn style repository, + Drupal notes"
date: 2011-03-31
author: dparizek
categories:
  - Drupal
  - Programming
  - Website Development
original_url: http://parizek.com/2011/03/31/put-a-project-into-git-version-control-with-central-svn-style-repository-drupal-notes/
---

# Put a project into git version control, with central svn style repository, + Drupal notes

Git is distributed and wonderful. Svn kinda sucks. But often you still want to sort of think of your git setup as having a one central bare repository, and git does that. Steps to set-up, for your reference and mine, follow: Go to the base root directory of your project and type: `$ git init $ git add . $ git commit -m "initial commit"` now your project is under git's purview. `$ git branch *master` and you see you have one branch named master that was auto-created by the git init and commit process above. Now go to wherever you want the bare (central) repository to be. `$ mkdir my_repository.git $ cd my_repository.git $ git --bare init Initialized empty Git repository in /home/git/my_repository.git $ exit Bye!` your bare repository is set-up, simple as that, but now you need to push all the files into it: First check and see if you have any remote repositories being tracked locally: `$ cd ~/Sites/myapp $ git remote` None came up, good. We already looked at local branches: `$ git branch * master` Just one branch, the master branch that is auto-created by git when you did init/commit above. Check .git/config: `$ cat .git/config [core] repositoryformatversion = 0 filemode = true bare = false logallrefupdates = true` Now, push from your project to the bare repository: First, let your local know about the remote (bare): `$ git remote add origin ssh://myserver.com/home/git/my_repository.git` Check your config file again ($ cat .git/config) and you will see new lines for the remote named origin. Finally: `$ git push origin master` All set. Now you can have others pull from the bare main repository, e.g.: `$ git clone ssh://username@myserver.com/home/git/my_repository.git` **SOME DRUPAL NOTES** in Drupal, you probably do not want settings.php and .htaccess included in the repository. Depending, you might also want to include sites/default/files as an ignore directory. Really, should of done this much earlier, before we added files into git. also, note: To stop tracking a file that is currently tracked, use `git rm --cached filepathname`. To ignore files, like svn propset ignore, go edit the exclude file to add in the file paths with wildcards that you wish git to ignore: `$ vim .git/info/exclude` eg.: `-bash-3.2$ cat .git/info/exclude # git ls-files --others --exclude-from=.git/info/exclude # Lines that start with '#' are comments. # For a project mostly in C, the following would be a good set of # exclude patterns (uncomment them if you want to use them): # *.[oa] # *~ sites/default/settings.php .htaccess`